You can add users to
your Google Analytics account at different levels of the account hierarchy.
Where you add a user determines
their initial access so it's important to understand the structure.
The highest level of the account hierarchy is organization.
Next is account, then property, and then view.
You add users in the admin section in Google Analytics.
You need manage users permission at the account property or view level to add users.
So, for example, if you click "User Management" at
the account level in the Google merchandise store,
you'll see that although you have access to the account,
you need the write permission level to add new users.
Each time you add a new user,
the key question to ask is do you want the user to have access to the entire account,
certain properties in the account,
or just certain views?
Let's use an example to explore this question.
In this example, you have a parent organization that owns a media company.
The media company has several digital brands.
Each brand would have its own property and each property could have specific views.
Let's say one of the brands is The Huffington Post to make this more realistic.
The parent organization is Verizon Communications.
They have a media company called Oath Inc.
If you added the user at the organization or account level,
the user would have access to all of the properties and views in
the account with the same set of permissions that you use.
If you add the user at the property level so at The Huffington Post property,
then the user would only have access to
that property with the permissions that you provide.
Let's say you were the analytics manager and you wanted to create a view that only had
analytics data for the podcast section of The Huffington Post.
You could use a filter to create that view and share it with all of your podcasters.
They would only have access to analytics data for
this view keeping all other analytics data private.
This is one way you can leverage views.
We'll explore this concept further later on in the course.
Once you've selected a level,
go to the desired account property or view.
Click "User Management."
In the account users list,
you click "Plus" then click "Add new users."
Enter the email address for the user's Google account,
select the permissions you want, and click "Add."